After market hours Monday, a researcher initiated coverage of Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL) stock, and his positive take on the company helped send its shares higher the following day. Apple closed Tuesday 0.6% in positive territory in a trading session that saw the S&P 500 index decline by 0.1%.

All about the AI
The analyst behind the move was Bernstein SocGen Group's Mark Newman, who launched his Apple tracking with a recommendation of outperform (buy, in other words). The pundit set his price target at $290, anticipating upside of 22% on the high-profile tech stock's most recent closing stock price.

Young person at a desk using a PC and tablet computer simultaneously.
Image source: Getty Images.
According to reports, Newman was most encouraged by Apple being something of a quick pathway to artificial intelligence (AI) takeup for users. The company's latest iPhone models, for example, are packed with easy-to-use and device-native AI technology. The Bernstein analyst wrote that this provided quicker access to AI functionalities.

On the flip side, Newman cautioned that Apple could suffer if AI integration and implementation are not managed effectively. Customers could defect to other device makers.

The fruits of successful integration
That's a somewhat offbeat take on Apple. Of course, like any large tech company, it's trying hard to wed AI functionalities to its hardware and software, but for the most part it isn't renowned as an AI company. But this technology is pivotal for future success. As Newman wrote, Apple will need to integrate it well.

Should you buy stock in Apple right now?
Before you buy stock in Apple, consider this:

The Motley Fool Stock Advisor analyst team just identified what they believe are the 10 best stocks for investors to buy now… and Apple wasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years.

Consider when Netflix made this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation, you’d have $648,369!* Or when Nvidia made this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation, you’d have $1,089,583!*

Now, it’s worth noting Stock Advisor’s total average return is 1,060% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to 189% for the S&P 500. Don’t miss out on the latest top 10 list, available when you join Stock Advisor.